---
author: Jonathan Haas
pubDate: 2024-04-11
title: 'My Manager README: A Guide to Working With Me'
postSlug: my-manager-readme
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - management
  - leadership
  - culture
  - transparency
  - trust
image:
  url: 'https://images.pexels.com/photos/267586/pexels-photo-267586.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&w=1260&h=750&dpr=2'
  alt: 'A book open on a desk'
description: 'A transparent guide to my management style, communication preferences, and working expectations'
---

If you're reading this, you're either working with me, interested in working
with me, or just at some level curious how I operate as a manager. While I'm
certain that most of the aspects below do come up in regular conversation over
the first month or so of working under me (nor is this document intended to
replace or override any of that relationship building), I think it's important
at some level to outline myself and how I can best benefit you.

## Hi, I'm Jonathan, and I wear many hats

If you've interfaced with me for more than a couple of minutes in a professional
context, it's going to become evident that I wear a number of hats. While my
primary job is leading security efforts for the company, there's a number of
things that I do in addition to that role in order to best promote growth of
myself, the company, and those around me. From recruiting, to strategy, to
product — I do a lot. If you're curious what I'm doing, please ask! I'm more
than happy to give you some visibility. With that noted, my role (and the
ultimate reason for this document) is to see you succeed. I believe success
comes from fulfillment, both personal and professional. I want to know that I'm
doing my best in ensuring you can grow as a person, as an employee, and as a
member of the company at which we both work. In order to do that, this may take
many forms. Whether reviewing code you've written, a report you've compiled, or
just noting aspects of your performance as an engineer, I will strive to do my
best constructively and in a way that I can best help you grow.

## Feedback

If you've got feedback for me — I want to hear it. I believe at some level in
radical candor. I'm not one for sugar coating or beating around the bush. If
there's a way I can improve, please tell me. While I like to be given feedback
in person, I'm open to email, or Slack if that is preferred. If you'd rather not
tell these things to me directly, please voice it to my manager, and they'll
make sure I get that feedback anonymously. In turn, I'll be straightforward with
your feedback as well. If I see areas you can improve, I'll let you know. If
you're doing great, I'll let you know. Upon our first 1:1 I'll ask a few
questions pertaining to how you best like feedback (Frequency, how you prefer to
receive it, etc). I'll try my best to ensure I follow these.

## Schedule

My schedule is rather hectic, but it's more than open for you when and where you
need it. On any given day, it's likely in a couple of meetings, but that doesn't
mean you can't snag me for a chat. I heavily focus on my calendar. Scheduling
something on there is the best way to traditionally get in touch with me. If you
have a quick question, feel free to ask it. Traditionally speaking, email or
Slack is the best way to get a hold of me, but if you'd rather we have an in
person discussion, feel free to walk over to my desk and get my attention. If I
do not immediately respond, give me a few seconds — I'm likely just wrapping up
whatever it is I am working on so I can dedicate my full stream of consciousness
to you. I prefer Slack or an email rather than short conversations (especially
if I'm working on something pressing), but I'm open to having them. I'm pretty
much alway down for coffee or a quick walk outside. Feel free to throw something
on my calendar if that makes sense. I tend to work a fairly large amount of
hours in the week, but I don't expect your work schedule to mirror mine. I
heavily believe in work-life balance — and if you're capable of getting the work
done that we agree upon during the week, that's what matters to me. I will set
meetings from time to time, and I prefer you attend them. If you can't make
them, let me know in advance. Above all, use good judgement. Similarly, if you
want to work from home sometimes, I encourage you to do so. For myself, I
typically work from home once or twice every two weeks, usually if I'm feeling
under the weather. That said, if you're not productive when you work from home,
or if you can't be available for video meetings when you work from home, I
encourage you to come in to the office or take a day off.

## Performance and 1:1

It is likely we'll have some weekly 1:1 scheduled. I'd prefer we schedule this
at a time that is most convenient for you. Your 1:1 is your time — and while I
may have some items to discuss with you, use this time as you please. While a
1:1 is a fantastic opportunity to discuss items that typically don't make sense
to be conversed around coworkers, don't feel the need to only discuss these
topics. Our 1:1 exists for me to help you best find happiness and growth.
Everything discussed will stay confidential unless you request otherwise, or if
it falls under a certain category of topics that your employee handbook will go
over. If you've got blockers or concerns, I'd love to hear them during this
meeting. If you're curious about something, we can take a deep dive into it.
We'll try to have a weekly team meeting to recap events, so don't feel the need
to go through everything that happened this week (but if you want to go over a
specific item or items, feel free). Above all, please remember that I'm here to
help.
